Lab 5: Introduction to Pandas
Objectives
Understand the basic operations in Pandas
Learn how to load data into a DataFrame
Analyze data using built-in functions
Perform data cleaning techniques
Prerequisites
Basic understanding of Python programming
Installed latest versions of Python and Pandas
Familiarity with using Jupyter Notebook or any Python IDE
Lab Tasks
Task 1: Load a CSV file into a DataFrame
Step 1.1: Import Pandas Library
Before starting, ensure that you have the Pandas library installed. Use the following command to import it in your Python environment.

import pandas as pd
Step 1.2: Load the CSV File
Load a CSV file into a Pandas DataFrame using the read_csv() method. For this example, we'll assume you have a CSV file named data.csv.

df = pd.read_csv('data.csv')
Task 2: View the first few rows and basic statistics
Step 2.1: Display the First Few Rows
Use the head() method to view the first five rows of the DataFrame. This helps you to verify the data loading process.

print(df.head())
Step 2.2: Basic Statistics
Pandas provides describe() method to view basic statistical details like mean, standard deviation, minimum, and maximum values.

print(df.describe())
Task 3: Clean data by removing missing values
Step 3.1: Identify Missing Values
Before cleaning, it’s crucial to understand where the missing values exist. Use isnull() combined with sum() to find out.

print(df.isnull().sum())
Step 3.2: Remove Missing Values
Typically, you can remove rows containing missing values using the dropna() method. However, be sure this step aligns with your data goals.

df_cleaned = df.dropna()
Step 3.3: Verify Data Cleanliness
Verify if the missing values have been handled as expected by checking again.

print(df_cleaned.isnull().sum())
Conclusion
In this lab, you have learned the basics of working with Pandas. You loaded data from a CSV file, examined and interpreted the dataset using basic methods, and cleaned the data by removing missing values. This foundational knowledge is essential for exploring deeper functionalities of Pandas in data manipulation and analysis.